I told the boy I found him under a bush.
What was the harm? I told him he was sleeping
And that a black swan slept beside him,
The swan’s feathers hot, the scent of the hot feathers
And of the bush’s hot white flowers
As rank and sweet as the stewed milk of a goat.
The bush was in a strange garden, a place
So old it seemed to exist outside of time.
In one spot, great stone steps leading nowhere.
I told the boy I looked for him a long time
And then very swiftly and without making a sound,
I picked the boy up and slipped him into my belly,
So white it was not like the skin of a boy at all,
But like the skin of a newborn rabbit, or like the skin
Of a lily, pulseless and thin. And a giant bird
With burning feathers. And beyond them both
A pond of incredible blackness, overarched
With ancient trees and patterned with shifting shades,
Like the knocking of a thousand wooden bells....
Come to me today weeping because some older boys
Had taunted him and torn his new coat,
“I wish I had never been born. I wish I were back under the bush,”
Which made the old garden rise up again,
Shadowed and more strange.
There was no black swan.
Striking and striking the hardening ground.
Though the words do not always Seem to work.
It is good to say first An invocation.
Blessed is the day. And the one who destroys the day.
Blessed is this ring of fire In which we live
Its two lonely notes. The insect’s song both magnifies
A doorbell ringing through an abandoned house
And two-headed goats, seem larger and more ghostly.
The high grasses spill their seed. It is hard to know
The right way in or out. But here, you can have
The deer I follow, and that even now are watching us,
Sleep at night their restless sleep. I find their droppings
Of sweet liquid. A dowser might find it with his witching
He takes up his ominous clucking, fretting like a baby,
Lonely sweetling. It is hard to know the right way
Blessed are those who stand still
In their confusion. Blessed is the field as it burns.
Or maybe it was a ghost bored with its lot.
It does not matter.
Today I stood for the first time before the bodiless head and the strange flowering tree it guards.
I tried not to laugh.
I tried not to think: This is your just dessert: Pillar of pride, pilloried.
I touched with one finger the warm fruit.
Not a tree in flower, as I had so long thought, but a flowerless tree coupled with a blossoming trumpet vine.
until the vine and the tree were almost indistinguishable
a trumpet tree, tree out of time
a creature more fish than bird, more insect than fish
To nowhere it returned.
The garden stood perfectly still.
And for a moment in that garden it seemed as if sound and silence were the same thing
the morning flushed to perfect fullness.
There was no sound. It was like closing the eyes of the dead.
The glass is broken, and the milk falls down.
The bee has a suffering softness,
a ring of fur, Like a ring of fire.
He burns The flowers he enters, the way The rain burns the grass.
The boy said, The horse runs hard As sorrow, or a storm, or a man With a stolen purse in his shirt.
The horse’s legs are a hundred Or more, too many to count,
And he holds a moon white as fleece In his mouth, cups it like water So it will not spill out.
I am a boy And a man.
The ghosts of the heart - whose
Hunger is a dress for my song.
something the next few hours Would erase, swiftly, something of no account.
The she-wolf, nursing The boys who would build what amounted to a lasting city On this earth.
And the truth is both dog and wolf Are ancient
or the sick dog comes not from the garden But from another time, in another city
Out of the ordered whiteness proceeds a thing of great disorder,
A shape from the world of shadows, something to drive
But I did not drive her away, though I could do Nothing for her.
Have been years later, after all that would pass had passed.
And now I would make of her something
Better than she could make of herself
This might be what forever is, the presence of time overriding the body of time,
Unguarded and gravely watched this garden
But not even that, the pause before the gesture
the gardenless stretch Of old yard, sweetened now by the half-light As if by burning flowers.
We can say The things of the day do not fill it.
We can say no one will come - the day will be empty because you are no longer in it.
We can say The eye is not filled by seeing. Nor silenced By blinding.
We can say, we can say your body Appeared on the table, and swiftly disappeared
Do not let the sun go down on the dead figure,
Do not fix the dead figure in mind, the false face,
Remember as you should remember, by heart,
In the garden's dark chamber - and the ground took the body, and the ground was pleased.
Dawn raising the walls of day, the rooms we live in,
Things painted on plaster to keep the dying company,
like the creature Who carries on his back the flat and shining earth.
I wanted a child. What then, this?
Stands dumb. Demanding what? Pity? Affection? A breast full Of milk?
Honey to the flies. Rancid honey.
Oh, Sheep, Sheep, this is my undoing,
That you have a thought and that I would read it
As if calling the field to order....There is no order.
What day of the week is this? Wash day? Bake day? What hour of what day?
“I had a small Black goat, who pounded his head against a tree Until he was dead. His name was Bumblebee....”
Well, night is coming on. No, it is dead afternoon.
Perhaps the stars are shifting Behind the veil of day? Perhaps.
He has Swallowed the last of the dress
Dear Monstrous Child, I would Nurse you if I could.
But you are far too large, And I am far too old for such foolishness.
Stained breasts suddenly Full of milk. And no one to feed on them.
Dressed now in the snow that raises the ghosts Of dead flowers
Flesh of water and ash.
Like the sun, the lion is a two-faced creature.
Her four eyes are old.
Oh, it is a far, far country The lion comes from.
Deep in the heart of the ground.
The lion will bear a child. How can a stone lion Bear a living child?
Because still in the corner Of her deformed head a dream lodges.
The ground is a flock of dead birds.
The fed offspring stirs. Soon he will stagger From burial.
Lion flesh and bird flesh and man flesh.
We would prefer this were a trick. Strings And ropes. But it is not.
The greenness is his hunger. His hunger will overtake The ground and soon devour even the mother.
She will sleep in his belly. He will rock her softly.
If you cannot trust the dog, the faithful one?
Big as a summer hotel, thirty rooms For thirty birds, thirty perches from which to sing. Such is the moon when it is full.
Full of the shredded sheet music of long-dead birds
The dogs move fast. How will I follow? And which one? They are not in agreement.
If the dog cannot be trusted, Then what? The foot? But the foot is blind.
But still I hear it, the dark sound that begins at the edge Of the mind, at the far edge of the uncut field Beyond the garden
If I whistle Will the dogs come? Can I gather their trailing leashes And hold them in my hand? They cannot be held.
The sound of the cry coming closer....If I forsake The dogs?....If I forsake the mummers?....If I step Like a fool into the glassy outer darkness?....O self....
Now I rest my head on the satyr’s carved chest,
The hollow where the heart would have been.
If I sit without moving, how quickly Things change,
here is the smell of fruit And the smell of wet coins.
There is the sound of a bird Crying, and the sound of water that does not move
Uncovering what is brave.
And there they are: the armies of pale creatures who without cease of doubt sew the sweet sad earth.
The boy drowned in the bog. Not a pretty sight.
Not a pretty end. And it no accident.
And mute the birds. Not like birds at all.
And afternoon come too soon, and then Come no longer
What is the life of a man? Or one not even a man?
And if a life takes its own life? If a man takes from himself a man?
Greenness like fire will not swiftly stamp out
Not one Fish in it, not one blind fish.
There would Have been a better time. Or place. Better.
Who raised the curtain?
What prophet in what Dark room?
Did he weep when he wrote Down the words?
And what Did the flesh smell like when the prophecy Was sealed?
Did he watch till the end, Or did he leave that for others?
And so we have a story. But still the story Does not end.
Now the living boy Finds the dead one.
He thought the dead boy Must be something other. Flesh of a lily. Or a fallen hat.
The boy had wanted a brother. But this was not what he meant.
Had he said the wrong words? Did words have such power?
he would carry this shadow Of no certain shape
now a lamb, now a bird, now a boy dressed as a woman.
From here to there, and there to here.
How I threw seed just to watch the birds fight.
One year a crop of fruit That melted on the tongue, a kind of manna, light As honey, just enough to sustain one. And then nothing.
The window opening onto Bare grass.
How inflated my sorrow. But the tree Itself was inflated. A perpetual feast.
Did its featherweight nature darken Just before it was felled? Was it capable of darkening?
Once I found a flower that looked like a human brain growing near a fence
I saw in the dark water shapes, and the shapes were golden
a giant form that never rose to the bait and never came fully into view,
A lily and a man's brain bound together in one body.
The river is dead or nearly so,
More like a child who has gotten The sum wrong, but stubbornly knows the sum Doesn’t matter as much as one thinks
Corn cobs Drop into the poisoned water.
And where am I now?....Is this a beginning, A middle, or an end?
forget this, forget that, leave no Stone unturned.
Before I knew you I stood In this place.
Now I forsake the past as I knew it To feed you into it.
In the late light, as if you had always been here.
Take off, Take off your glass... Let me see your sightless eyes?
Look, the heart moves as the moths do
But nameless you walked toward me And I knew you
The hunter had cut her legs off,
I found her in summer and then I forgot about her.
I thought For a moment it must be summer and not winter,
“He is dead,” say, or, “Take up your bed and walk.”
until my mind gave in to my eyes,
And the thing I had not wanted to see, or thought I could not see, hung suspended above me, a face,
Until I saw that the face was not one but two,
a hand holding out A piece of torn bread that turns for no reason Into a block of honeycomb
I knew that the child would never Be born, but must ride always with her, his body Embedded in hers, his head up to the sky
She will bark or cry out like a child if alarmed, but she Will not speak.
And I stood In the dark until I closed my eyes. And then I stood no more.
This Is a mean task, this business Of burying oneself before one Is dead.
Its many masks flayed off, Each mask more extravagant Than the last,
We must play with passion Our two parts
The chief crow performs with panache
The light was very bright it was hard to see them,
There was something deadly in it, Or already dead.
Something beyond the report Of beauty.
It stayed for the length of time it takes two swarms Of bees to carry a snake through a wide garden
And when I looked up the bees and the snake were gone,
But the garden smelled of broken fruit, and across The grass a shadow lay for which there was no source,
Ungodly still, but full of dark shapes turning.
as words so often do not resemble the things they represent
words can even destroy in their saying the very thing for which they stand.
so that the small rain of god might overshadow the rest of his pleasure
the pain of the one watching, who was afraid to follow the ancient covenants and afraid not to, were folded into this piece of flesh.
I saw the dog in a dream.
The few trees There grow black and yellow.
It is as if the memories held within The meat were rising from it.
And I lost the power to tell the figures In my dreams from those we call real.
I thought the scene might have been staged For me.
Or testing me In some way I could not understand.
since the river Of blood flows forever, the streams Of an eternal city, forever running,
Show the mad king to be nothing But a skinny man holding a costume Of cloth and paste.
Maybe I wanted what the hunter Wanted when he struck the doe.
There is blood Everywhere. The trees shed it. The sky. There is no end. And isn’t it pretty?
She gave her body To the dog.
The doe dreamed Of her death and it came to pass.
She courted the hunter and he shot her.
And black and yellow are the colors Of the orchard’s hive when it masses
And the heart Was heavy. And wet. And it smelled As it would smell forever. Of myrrh. And burning blood. And gold.
But why kill flies? They do not trouble me.
The blue blood moving through branch and vine,
Through the wings of dead things and living things
the sap that threads all things,
Can the box Be altar and garden plot and bed?
one head sleeping while the other wakes,
The whole veil of things seemed less substantial Than the thing that moved in the dark behind me,
It will stand and remember its gods Long after those gods have been forsaken.
And then the water that does not exist opening up
It is a hollow affair. You understand. And it has four heads. But this is misleading.
like a thing to be worn, not a thing in its own right,
they stand and stand so that we can stare at them until the mind goes blank,
the heads were crownless from birth
trying to get somewhere, they seem to spin in a wheel, and it is a fiery wheel they spin in,
though that was probably Part of the sickness.
All these years in the same difficult position, waiting for the waters Far below to deliver this naked creature, that looked like him,
The silence of night awake inside the silence of day
Again and again, she will do this, Until the game is over
The cupids’ bellies are swollen like the bellies of pregnant Women or small overbred dogs fed on delicacies.
Brother sticks its head in the mouth of the lion, a test Of courage, beating the boys at their own game,
as a child Once swung in the wind, grieving for her father,
filled not with honey, but with a black and red substance, dense and sweet as charred flesh
What Offspring will they bear?
And the queen in a fiery constellation Is carried to new quarters.
mulled in sweat and patience that gave birth beneath the scuptor’s hands
and the absence we had forgotten came back;
when her mother pressed the mute flesh, It is hiding, it is hiding, Mother,
To a far country it has gone, Mother, it is lost and cannot find its way back?
not the hound with no sense of smell blundering blindly through the woods
and realizes too late that the fabric of the world—is woven from rebuttals and embraces,
to which the woman had given too much importance, mistaking cloth for flesh;
warped beyond recognition, good only for the fire, and not much good for that;
a dark glass held up before the world upon which one can rap and rap and get no answer;
he fairest flesh of the fairest child, born to be king,
the way we hover over the past, bring it to life, or find, to our surprise, that it has a life of its own, turning and turning in space;
a darkness through which something white floats,
and they are laughing and laughing, and carrying on.