Listen: there was a goat's head hanging by ropes in a tree.
All night it hung there and sang. And those who heard it
Felt a hurt in their hearts and thought they were hearing
They sat up in their beds, and then they lay back down again.
Swayed back and forth, and from far off it shone faintly
The way moonlight shone on the train track miles away
Beside which the goat's headless body lay. Some boys
Had hacked its head off. It was harder work than they had imagined.
The goat cried like a man and struggled hard.
They hung the bleeding head by the school
And ran off into the darkness that seems to hide everything.
The head hung in the tree. The body lay by teh tracks.
The head called to the body. The body to the head.
They missing grew large between then
Until it pulled the heart right out of the body
Then the heart sang in the head, softly at first and then louder
Sang long and low until the mornig light came up over
The school and over the tree, and then the singing stopped...
She named the goat Broken Thorn Sweet Balckberry
the goat's silky hair was dark as well water
it had eyes like wild fruit
Seh sang him songs about girls with ropes and cooks in boats.
She dreamed daily that he grew bigger, and her did. She thought her dreaming made it so.
But one night the girl didn't hear the train's horn,
It was as if a storm had passed through while she slept
They hurried to riase money to buy the girl another goat
They hurried to find the boys who had done this,
to hear them say it was a joke, it was nothing but a joke.
What they didn't know was that the goat's head would go on singing, just for them
and that they would learn to listen
There would be a whistle, a hum, a high murmur, and, at least, a song
The low song a lost boy sings remembering his mother's call.
Not a cruel song, no, no, not cruel at all. This song is sweet. It is sweet. The heart dies of this sweetness.
The sun only a small bird flitting
A boy stands and watches it for a moment but then he loses interest and cuts
across the dull winter grass to play a game
with a stick and a rock and soft repeated shouts
and the bird is nothing again but a brown thing
branches, mind and heart, the cages of.
The bush's royal bloodline will briefly show
a tide of gold, a small inland sea
But now the bush is mute.
Our common blood slows but will not sleep
a kind of footpath the mind trudges over, back and forth
Perhaps we can pay the boy to trick you out of the bush
The glass will quicken your call, multiply it
until you are not one bird but a hundred
for no reason, because his hands will not stop
bird in the mind, bird in the bush
the bird of the blood brightening as it calls and calls for its mate.
No Sleep prowling like a caged animal.
And the smell of hyacinth heady in the air.
A mummery of scent. A museum of scent:
The wax figure house of things ebtter forgotten
There are carved lions on the lawn but they offer small protection.
Like the tablets of the law engraved on the heart.
Each man who eats sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on edge.
whose carved words are about the erasure of other words.
A kind of forgiveness.
No Sleep in his wolf suit
Like the train crossing the landscape.
The landscape is flat but still the melancholy grows steeper.
There is no station here, but the train Takes a long slowing.
A sound like held breath escaping
The train like a shovel in the garden
The hospital is a white dream, an unfathomable chalk cliff
A garden of full of sleep eaters and the audience they have captured:
The ones they hurt as they eat the heart's carved tablets.
And then eat the memory of them.
Is it hate does this? Oh, yes, probably. But how can we guess at it?
The depths of it?
No, the moonlight is dirty lamb's wool.
Something a child sucked on and then dropped behind her on the tracks.
Paired tracks. Twinned. Locked, like the carved lions
in the small posture of their destiny
The ballroom floor is lit.
They tease their toes into shoes.
Stay the moment. Stay the luck. Stay, stay, the fields are full of rain and baby's breath.
and the heart fastened to the sleeve will break fire
The glass was not black-hearted.
It was an innocent pretender.
It took to itself the idea of sky and the bird bought it
So let us wear it. Let us wear the bird like
to remind us that caution snares Nothing.
O the cautious are caught in the net of their cares.
Booted his small body beyond the Beyond.
A jester or a buffoon might play with demons and not pay.
A jester might see these vines as bell ropes, and drag a sound from them.
The fall of angels.
God watched the angels fall. 
out of keeping with the season.
It is lodged in the cave like a pocket mirror reflecting our distress.
The boy lies dead on his mother's legs:
the undressed moment: the exposure of the broken motion.
the original that the madman leapt over the velvet ropes to disfigure with his busy hammer keeps lurking behind it and laughing. Or is it that the madman is laughing?
There are no ropes here.
the milk beard: the beard before the man Beard 
They have grown a face.
Not like the face of Moses who broke the tablets of the law.
And burned the golden calf to powder.
A meal of such extravagance it had to be concocted from phantoms.
But more like the face of a bearded lady:
Water braids down the swollen vines.
A passion for the morose. 
And the saints assume their assigned postures: Posture of swallowing the ribald joke whole.
We came for a show of Mercy.
We had practiced our roles for a long time
The whole bag of tricks designed to catch God off guard
The Lady of Improbable Thought.
the Lady of Prolonged Silence.
The Lady of Strange Shape
That the hand of Anonymous hammered from the stone.
Possessing the power of Origins.
How many years did it contend with the Lady?
the Lady is a ship stalled and willing for the wait.
She is a ship and a figurehead in one: a blind form: having no pupils.
(Unless we are her pupils? The sight she has forsaken?)
We followed the rules. We followed them all.
And the smell of small illegal fires.
the clearing they made in the trees through which something might have moved.
But there was a deficit in the faculty of the Imagination.
Wherever we stood the Lady looked away: As if she were listening to something tha tmade no sound:
The assumption of the scene behind the scene:
Couple Vengeance with those things we cannot subtract.
Through which something might have moved.
O Lady. O Lady. Around us an Ocean.
Here in the theater of public longing.
Collect of white dusk. 
Send up the sweet fragrance of the Far Gone. Where
The maple fell in another rain
Hold back the weather: sun
Keep time to: the telling and the told. Back and forth:
The lesson's passion is patience.
The unnegotiable real estate of absolute loss:
And luck makes an entrance in this: See: lightning
This is the stone the builders Rejected. Pleasure. Pleasure.
And briefly stay, the junketing sparrows, briefly
While the one divides into two: the heart and its shadow, the world and its threat, the crow back of the sparrow.
Near the surface, beneath the soft penetrable mask-
Alarm begins its troubled shoot: the fruit tree Beareth its fruit
The will given early to the dream of pleasure falters,
Growing by a gate made from another tree, a gate that cries as it swings
And now, in the dark, listen, in the dark the tulip poplar is singing, the leaves are singing,
And so that now. We are in the trouble of a sleep We did not dream of.
And the shadows of the trees are breaking. The shadows of the world's broken vessels.
Maybe he has found some seed in it. Or maybe he is telling the boy a secret
And the boy, who is made of stone, who has stood still for a long time
five slow notes that bring to mind a whole garden of fruit trees in winter
the sound of single drops of water striking the charred ground
and the boy made of stone shivers.
He likes the ghostly trees that rise up around him like the remnant of a garden he once stood in but has forgotten
He traded that pleasure for this.
What stands? The walnut:
the tower of story
and the spoon rattles in a cup because the child is gone.
As in a game: You're it. You're not. You're out.
The way things fast toward their absent forms. go in hunger. Go in grace.
at a distance: making a distance
as we kept her dead run in sight, that we might see if she chose
and troubled our fear with presence: with ghostly blossoming
She left her deadness to the morning, that the morning might have weight, that our waiting might matter:
by the treasonous gold-leaved passage of season, and you
but the weather that would hold you: yes:
the dead can mother nothing... nothing but our sight:
at a distance she was for a moment no deer at all but two swans: we saw two swans 
or they were stabbing the ground for some prize worth nothing, but fought over, so worth that,
And this is the soul: like it or not. Yes: the soul comes down:
Child. We are done for in the most remarkable ways.
paired as the soul always is: with itself: with others. 
of unstopped laguhter
of the fountain when it is working: when mechanics and meaning are flush and untroubled.
speech and its edicts broken by that intruder
between tongue and tooth
something winged: of insect color.
The gladness is fractured. As when
the globe with its thousand mirrors cracked the light. How
it hoarded sight: all the stolen perspectives
down the dark hall the ghosts danced
with us: down the dark hall: the broken angels. What keeps
the grass from slipping? The steep grass? Like my brother
it imitates the stone's arrest: this done
this done and nothing doing.
In the face of the wind it plants its foot and fights its own going:
and how white the sky is. How white.
Because they are shame, and cannot flee from it,
And cannot hide it, they go slow,
They do not look up, they do not fly-
Except at night when dark descends like shame,
When shame is lost to dark, and then,
Yesterday they were targets, but now they go slow
As if this lacuna between winter and spring, still gray
All seasons to be one, the going back
The crossing over, the standing still, all the same,
When the state you defend is a lost state,
Only reminds you that there is nowhere to run to.
A faith beyond the last desire to possess faith,
The soldier's resolve to march humpbacked straight into death
And over all that is lost.
Through the body fo the crow the finch flies:
The flower will be shot dead by the coming cold 
Or by the woman's disregard. Her forgetfulness
Arrows him the way Saint sebastian was arrowed:
Had been instructed to climb his own flesh
Was planting there: Crow's Next: House of the Spy
Regards goes up like trees.
It is too much to bear sometimes: a tree
Our endless lust for spectacle to rouse
restlessly signing the dark.
Pipistrelles, little pipes, little night pipes, the peculiar lost fluting of the outcast heart.
The river's slate waters slide silt and grief, the whole destroyed mountain of winter
Sometimes slowing, but never stopping. And
The world as it actually is? 
Or merely another world?
A world within a world? Perhaps
It is the mind that mulls the sape-perhaps it is the mind that makes its worlds
They live by echoes, as we do. Negotiate by echoes. Send signals out
But it is different with us. Fear in us is central. Of the bone. It is our inheritance. Our error. What flies back at us
from the emptiness we cannot resist casting into,
And what we hear almost always blinds us.
Because the heart, friend, is a shadow,
We are not birds. Despite our walls covered with winged men, we are not birds.
And all that is birdlike in the bats is also deception. They have
Their wings are skin. Skin! Stretched
There is nothing at all of the bird in us.... Except for flight. Except for flight.
Sactuary of sameness made strange by hard-hit sight: gathering place
As the seed of the self will be: if that other larger call comes in
The cicadas were loud and what looked like a child's
Dreams come from somewhere. There is this argument about nowhere, but it is not true.
There is this argument about the dead, but that is not right either.
The dead keep working.
And my daughter told me the story of the White Pilgrim.
Many dreams come true. But mostly it isn't
The boys are part of a larger destruction, but this is beyond what they can imagine.
War in heaven and the damage is ours.
There was a pack of dogs loose in my dreams, Or it could have been dark angels. They were
Taking the names off the stones.
The snake curled around it. Pretty as a bracelet.
The armies of heaven. They are not very friendly.
Some dreams hold and I am afraid that this
With hsi secret name inscribed on his thigh,
If I pretend he is not here he grows larger in the barn, filling all the shadows, and then I cannot go in to feed the cows
And I hear those who give milk crying for milk
Even in winter I keep the garden
Blood fruit: blood apples.
If you step passt the stations of your thought and number your steps.
The faculty of expansion decreasing.
Somebody thinks or somebody turns. 
Into what? Into what?
Though here we are not changed much by such sights.
And when you put your hand on the fish I felt how it burned your flesh, burned for the two worlds to meet....
The thoughts they deal from the dark. Better than any woman's flesh.
People fish the kills here.
And beyond, there is always the Island beckoning, to destroy or save,
The lure of the Island, though there is nothing on it
Is deep, the water is deep between.
In the body: the idea that harm can hasten
"See here... the ocean... the ocean is full of dirt... And it is going..." 
"Moo,"
How dark the night is and high up. Starless with ignorance.
milk shadow
out words coming back to us as cheap thrill: chepa perfume....
Our own genius for harm.
Do you want to see them? Five are the gardens. Daily
One-armed monkey, a voiceless cat, a rat called Goliath,
The gardens.... I have to yank them out by the roots or they eat up all the ground.....
Perhaps the bird you planted beneath the pear tree... will become... another pear tree.
Be the body unlocking
I have seen, I have seen the lake's heart
All wild animals were once called deer
A figure swims up from nowhere, a flying figure
That seems to be made of nothing more than moonlight, or vapor,
And maybe this happens when the driver gets out. Maybe not.
Strange about the kills we get without intending them. 
Because we are pointed in the direction of something.
Because we are distracted at just the right moment, or the wrong.
Lightning strikes and strikes again.
There was no thunder, nothing to be afraid of. And thena  single boly from nowhere, and for a moment the man
A song about boys and war.
And the thing about the doe was this. She looked alive. As anything will in the half light.
A person pretending to be a statue seems farther gone in death
Death seems to be the living thing, the thing that looks out through the eyes.
We sing about swans, but they are mean.
The swan is made for the water. 
You can't judge him out of it.
He's made for the chapter in the rushes.
The dark pines, the plane is home free. It owns it all, all.
And you can't judge the swan out of the water.... That is another.
Wings of smoke, wings of air, then everything changes.
Out of the shallows the lovers emerge, sword and flame,
O bird of moonlight. O bird of wish. O sound rising
Like an echo from the water. Grief sound. Sound of the horn.
The same ghostly sound the deer makes when it runs
Through the coldest moments, when it feels as if the earth
The heart flying into the arms of the one that will kill her.
I knew this because I hadn't slept for two nights.
The color of the moon would be later. The color
Know it was dead. It was like a gardenThat darkness doesn't come down but rises up.
Dark water full of unnameable things
And we didn't notice when the cows started playing their own game.
And close, a blurred ruddy color. The color of a body
Our skin was hot, even in the cold air.
Very slowly they'd start turning like a wheel.
But the wheel kept moving. It moved faster and faster
In ragged circles. Always clockwise. Three
As if to break up the hard ground for planting,
And then all at once the wheel would shatter
And then after awhile they'd made another circle.
Sometimes our hearts are stone. Sometimes not.
The trees get bigger at night and shut out the light.
The darkness seems to leak out of them, It leaks
Out of the ground and out of the trees, and it
That smelled of old batteries, a ghost bird
Rising and falling through the field's dark rooms.
The rhythmic flash of the yellow wood writing adn erasing
Faint messages on the dark in answer to those
Sent out by the slow dance of the bull's horns.
Once there was a sacrifice for sin. And it
Was a bull like this one. A first born.
Once there was a garden of god. And we were in it.
I raised the bull and he had a man's face.
The sound was. It kept breaking into my dream,
Which was about a window that had been shattered
By rocks. The window was black and large, and as it
Opened wider and wider it became the mouth of a lion,
Maybe some bees, or maybe the song of a child
Out of which something issues, something small
By the time I went to find the sound it was too late.
The heifer died of milk fever. The other
and I took the bull so he wouldn't be made into veal.
I bought the bull who had never seen his mother
Of a water white solution. And he grew bigger.
And his face was human. You can take my word for it.
There are four angels standing at the four corners of the earth.
The sky turns light all over just before it blacks out,
And the moon gets clearer and clearer as it
All at once in a black rain. We were losing our faces.
The cows were working. But there was something.
Maybe the cows had wings under their legs.
The bull had no mother and so I raised him.
He had a human face. And the wheels moved
Over the field. The spirit was in the wheels
And we were watching though we were going blind.
And the moon turned to salt, turned bright and fine
As salt or oil, a river of oil sliding by.
But then the game would pull us back. WE fell
Toward the sounds of each other. The shapes
Of each other. Whatever we were without bodies.
We were playing blind and the moon was rising.
The spirit was in the wheels. And there were eyes
The air all dizzy and kicked-up. A holy insect
Of old grass and new grass.
And the last sound was the sound of the cows stopping
The four corners of the night all staked out.
Completely understood. But unspeakable.